Chapter 1:


[Survivor Class obtained!]
[Survivor Level 3!]
[Skill – Undisturbed Rest obtained!]
[Skill – Dowsing Sense obtained!]




Unconsciousness shattered, like the mirror surface of a pond broken by a stone’s throw. He jerked awake, wiggling frantically against some unknown binding. This was only for a few moments however, for he soon remembered where he was; snuggled up like a bug in a rug, wrapped inside his sleeping bag and lying within his hammock. The young man froze, listening quietly. What was-?


Hmm. What had woken him? More importantly, had he woken his dad? The boy listened intently, quietly, nary a muscle twitching. His dad’s work was stressful, campouts ironically being one of the few times where he could relax. He’d take a load off, and let the youngsters handle things such as meals and firewood.


The young man relaxed slightly after a short while. At least whatever had woken him hadn’t roused his dad. It was still pitch dark, and he was tired. Uninclined to face whatever nightmares were lurking outside his hammock, the boy resolved to discuss the event with the gang in the morning. Tired after a long day of hiking, he slowly drifted back to sleep.


---


It wasn’t the birdsong that woke him. It wasn’t the rays of light streaming through the canvas, nor was it the territorial squirrels arguing with each other from treetops. No, what ended up waking Josh was the heat.


It was positively sweltering! Josh woke suddenly, lying in a morass of his own sweat and part way towards becoming a Josh-puddle. Not yet awake, he nonetheless hastily unzipped his sleeping bag, pulled back his hammock cover, and rolled out onto the ground.


He landed face first with a whumph as air escaped his lungs. Josh flailed wildly, rolling left and sitting up to get his face out of the… snow..?


“Excuse me but what the fuck?”


Where was the snow? He rubbed his eyes. Spat dirt out of his mouth. There was no snow, no dad’s hammock. The trees were similar, still maple and oak and the like. The boulder they’d built a snowman on was gone. In its place, the corpse of an absolutely massive fallen oak filled the center of a clearing in the forest canopy. The path through the trees to the rest of the camp was gone.


He rubbed his eyes again, looking around warily. This was a different forest, wasn’t it? By the looks of the leaves it was spring, the sun lighting a dappled pattern on the forest floor.


His hammock was still hanging from two trees. Josh blinked. These were definitely different trees,  most certainly not the ones he’d used yesterday.


He eyed the fallen oak again. It falling must have created this clearing in the first place. The edge was ringed with small bushes leading into large bushes and younger trees. Josh’s hammock was on the edge of that, attached to a pair of still developing oaks. He turned to look deeper into the forest and saw that most if not all of the trees outside the clearing were like the one that’d fallen: ancient, wizened oak sentinels.


He was lost. Numbly, he stood and removed several layers of pants, shirts, and socks, shaking them off and hanging them on branches to dry. He looked down, noting that the piece of Tyvek he used as a “doormat” was nowhere to be seen, as were his winter boots. His outer coat was also gone, no longer it or the tree it had been hanging on anywhere in vision.


Josh checked his backpack, searching rather frantically. “Come on, come on, yes!”


 He pulled out a pair of hiking boots. As he’d thought and hoped, Josh had never unpacked his hiking equipment from the last hiking trip he’d been on. Thankful for his lack of motivation regarding unpacking, Josh quickly brushed his socks off, lacing his feet up inside his boots.


His stomach rumbled. Josh looked around again, specifically at the clearing. He could see what looked to be berry bushes of some kind. Raspberry, maybe blueberry, perhaps? In any case, they didn’t look to be fruiting yet, merely flowering. So wherever or whenever Josh was, he decided he could safely rule out the season being early fall. Based on the lack of snow, it most likely wasn’t winter, either.


He rubbed his chin. Some time in spring, or late fall. The flowering on the fruit bushes indicated late spring. Unless, he supposed, the plants were massively different here.


Stomach rumbling again, Josh finally decided that it would be unlikely he could locate berries or any other obvious edibles. He pulled out his water bottle, then rummaged around inside his pack. It took a couple moments, but Josh emerged with a small travel burner, a cup, spoon, and some instant oatmeal. He looked around. Hmm. No table, since he had apparently been poofed to wherever overnight. A rock? There was a couple, though they were all covered in moss. Josh carried his stuff over to the fallen oak. Maybe on the main trunk? He placed everything down on a branch, and clambered up.


The bark was fairly wrinkled but indeed, there was a flat bit suitable for his little camp burner. He jumped down, placed the stuff into the many pockets of his cargo pants, and then clambered back up the massive trunk. Josh set the burner down on the flat patch. He poured some water into the mug, lit the burner with a lighter from another one of his pockets, and leaned back against a branch. Now, to wait.


Josh pulled out his phone automatically, ready to read a web serial like he always did while waiting for food… to… cook…


He facepalmed. A phone. Of course! Now is not the time to be reading. Maybe there was a signal? Nope. None. Not even a single bar! His phone wasn’t even pretending to get a signal, which was certainly quite concerning. Airplane mode it is, then! Battery charge? Hmm, 46 percent. Unfortunate. Battery saver mode, activate!


Josh scrolled through his various apps quickly, removing permissions and doing his best to disable apps that didn’t need to be running in the background, without actually uninstalling them. He ran through his ebook library. Anything useful for a survival scenario?


Hmm. Jules Verne is somewhat contrived, so the accuracy of Mystery Island is probably out. The Martian? Not helpful. Nothing else stored on his phone was even remotely close to survival literature, so Josh just turned it off.


And now, to wait. Up until this point Josh had been running pretty much on autopilot. Change clothes to suit the weather, make food, etc. With the need to boil water came the need to sit and watch it, and now Josh’s repressed thoughts were catching up to him.


He was lost. Pulse quickened, breath became erratic. Josh closed his eyes and curled up, breathing quickly and shallowly. He felt dizzy, hot and cold at the same time. He was shaking. This couldn’t be real. It couldn’t. Clearly it was a dream. It was a dream. A dream. He rocked back and forth, holding back sobs.


Over the course of minutes, Josh gradually calmed. He was focusing on breathing slowly and deeply, and was mostly recovered by the time the water was boiling.


“Oh? The water’s done!” He cut open the oatmeal packet and added it to the travel mug, stirring the mixture with a spoon. The smell of sugar and cinnamon filled the air, drowning out the musty smells of the ancient forest. A smell from home.


Josh extinguished the burner, continuing to stir. He brought the mug towards his face, inhaling deeply the calming scent. He stirred some more, blowing gently to cool it faster. 


At last, it was cool enough to eat. Despite being just pre packaged bagged oatmeal, it was nonetheless quite tasty. After the first bite, Josh found he was quite hungry and so quickly finished the rest.


Josh was in the middle of pocketing everything afterwards, when he was interrupted by the sound of shuffling leaves. He froze. Something was coming! Cautiously, quietly, Josh scrambled down the side of the oak’s trunk. Where to hide, where to hide? He looked around. There! Josh moved quickly, nestling against the wall of roots, taking cover beneath the massive trunk, and hidden by the brush growing in the clearing.


He waited, breathing quietly and staring intently at the edge of the clearing. 


More shuffling was heard, some rustling. After a good minute or two, the smaller trees and bushes at the edge of the clearing began to shake as something nudged through.
Josh eyed the creature. It was a porcupine? At first he questioned his diagnosis. The creature eyed the empty clearing, looking somewhat bored. As it advanced further and Josh could see more of it, he saw it was indeed a porcupine.


A massive one. The porcupine was closer to the size of a grizzly bear or exceptionally large dog than what one might consider a normally small woodland creature.


Hmm.


It looked somewhat like a cross between a porcupine and a wolf, scaled up to the size of a small bear. The needles covering its body looked… shiny?


The porcuwolf eyed the bushes, sniffed the air with its surprisingly wolfish snout. Suddenly it froze. A piercing  gaze snapped to where Josh’s hammock was hanging, and then over to where he himself was hiding.


Josh stared at the creature, certain that it was staring back. Neither moved for several moments, not even breathing.


The creature looked away, sighing as it exhaled. Slowly it turned, and trundled back off into the woods.


Josh held still under the tree for a good while, pale as a ghost, or even paler. He was certain that the only reason he was still alive was because that creature, whatever it was, had decided not to kill him.


He felt a tickling on his right side. At first Josh ignored it, unwilling to move in case the creature changed its mind. The tickling moved up his side though, and he saw movement out of the corner of his eye.


Josh’s head turned, and the color that had been returning to his cheeks immediately fled once more. A spider, the biggest he’d ever seen! The size of a dinner plate. Hairy creeping legs, massive fangs, and pitch black eyes that shone with nothing but malevolence. His whole body spasmed. A bloodcurdling scream tore the air, his arms flailing wildly. Josh leapt out from under the tree trunk.


“Get it off getitoff getifoffgetifoffgetitoffgetitoff.”


His wild flailing sent the spider flying into the clearing’s brush, where it disappeared. Josh’s entire body shuddered as he rapidly checked himself for bites. Nothing.


He leapt up onto the trunk, grabbing his stove and assorted things quickly before fleeing back to his hammock. Standing on the moss and dead leaves that made up the forest floor outside the clearing, he again checked himself for spiders.


Nothing.


Josh exhaled a shuddering hysterical laugh. What was this place?


He moved to pack his things. Josh wasn’t sure where he’d be heading to, but anywhere was better than that clearing!


Unless spiders like that were commonplace. Josh wasn’t sure what he’d do in that scenario.


“Probably curl into a ball and cry myself to death.” He let loose another shaky laugh.


His still panic-addled mind moved quickly to pack everything up, brain conjuring images of massive spiders descending from the trees above. He didn’t stop to consider if anything in the clearing might be useful, he couldn’t. Josh just wanted to leave.


It was the work of a few minutes to roll up his hammock and rain cover, strapping them to his pack. Within ten minutes, Josh was ready to leave. Still uneasy about the spider, but at least thinking rationally now, he stopped.


At least the porcuwolf hadn’t come back after the scream. In his panic, he’d completely forgotten to look for it. Josh hoisted the pack onto his back, clipping the various straps. He rubbed his chin. Josh knew he was definitely leaving this clearing, but where would he even go?


Hmm. Well over the course of his breakfast the sun had moved right and down in the sky, meaning that the clearing was either Northwest or Southwest of where his hammock had been hanging. Here, Josh’s brain froze for a bit. If you were in the northern hemisphere facing the sun, it would rise on the left and set on the right. If you were in the south facing the north, it would rise on the left and set on the right.


So there was no way to tell the hemisphere, right? No, wait! Josh facepalmed momentarily, before removing a compass from a side pocket. It… spun in circles, uselessly.


Really.


Well that’s unfortunate.


Josh looked around aimlessly for a bit, keeping a wary eye out for oversized spiders. Hmm. Unable to decide, he just closed his eyes and spun in a circle for a bit. When he opened them, he was facing away from the clearing, in the direction the sun was moving.


West it is, then.


He cast one last glance at the clearing, wishing it a mental farewell. Hoisting his hiking pack up on his back, Josh began to trudge away from the clearing.


—


As it turns out, walking through a featureless forest alone gets boring. Not only was there nothing to look at beyond massive endless oak trees, Josh also couldn’t relax too much; he needed to focus on walking quietly, and keeping an eye out for any creatures that might decide he looked like a tasty morsel.


After the encounter with the porcuwolf Josh realized that he probably wasn’t, to borrow a common turn of phrase, quite in Kansas anymore. (He’d been camping in the Rockies, but that's besides the point.)


Regardless of semantics, he most certainly hadn’t woken where he was when he’d gone to sleep.


“Another world? Concussion? A dream?”


He spoke quietly, but the sound of his own voice was some comfort to him.


“Maybe I’m in a coma right now, hooked up to a bunch of machines and whatnot.”


A chuckle. “I suppose either way it doesn’t matter. I’m either in a real survival scenario or I’m not, and I can’t tell which. Best to act as if my life is genuinely in danger.”


Josh was moving slowly, trying to avoid rustling too loud or stepping on a branch. He’d rubbed some of the dead leaves and decaying forest floor plant matter on his clothes, hoping the mulchy smell might help cover his scent.


He wasn’t sure how long he’d been walking for, and the sun was blocked too effectively by the forest canopy to guess the time from that. However long it’d been, the pure ancient oak forest had gradually given way to more mixed trees, pines, aspen, and maple trees beginning to break up the tedium. The number of bushes and younger trees had increased as well.


Josh had identified multiple berry bushes, none of which were in season unfortunately. He’d heard ferns were edible though, and at least those were present in abundance.


Not that Josh planned on getting desperate enough that ferns became the primary menu item.


His walk continued mostly uneventfully, as the oak trees continued to decrease in frequency and the forest lightened. There was one heart stopping moment where he’d encountered a bear at range but thankfully it had either not noticed him or decided to ignore him.


Light up ahead. All across the edge of his vision, Josh could barely make out what must have been a huge break in the canopy. He grinned, walking a bit faster now. As he neared the break in the trees, Josh began to make out some vaguely watery noises. A river, perhaps?


As Josh neared he saw that the break in the trees was, indeed, a river. Pine and oak gave way to birch trees, his cone of vision opening up to reveal a shallow river, wide as a football field, meandering to the right at walking pace.


Early afternoon sun shone down through the trees, making Josh squint as he reached the edge of the thicker portion of the forest. Much of the far riverbank looked to be overgrown with various trees and plants, right up to the river’s edge. On this side, however, the oak and pine trees faded out nearly entirely, replaced with sparse birches growing in sandy, rocky soil.
At least where Josh was standing, there was about twenty feet of relatively well lit, underbrush free ground, leading to the rocky riverside.


Josh set his pack down against a birch tree, and approached the river. It was quite loud, close up, but not nearly as loud as you might expect a river of this side to be. He couldn’t see any white water from the edge of the river. The shallowness of the river and the small size of the rocks along the edge implied to him that the reason there weren’t any cascades or other disruptions to the water was simply because there weren’t any large drops or boulders in this section of the river.


Josh chuckled quietly. “Cascades. A shame that’s the only river related term I know. Where did I even get that, was it that one rafting choose your own adventure I read in middle school?”


He shrugged. Josh began to turn back to his backpack when movement in the river caught his eye. Was that a fish?


He looked closer, waiting somewhat impatiently, and was soon rewarded with another flicker of sunlight bouncing off of scales. There was definitely fish in this river, swimming upstream.


“…what time of year is it, exactly? I thought fish only spawned in the fall. Salmon run, and all that.”


He pulled a low hanging branch down from the nearest tree, examining the leaves closely.


“Definitely spring. Very pale still, and some of the clusters haven’t… sprouted? Is that the term? Budded? Ah, whatever.”


Josh released the branch, leaving it to spring back into place with a small amount of rustling.


“At least I have fresh, running water. I’ve got enough purification pills for… ”


He checked the bottle, frowning. Half empty. Hmm. Two weeks of water, give or take.


Josh muttered to himself again. “I suppose this water would probably be fairly safe to drink, based on flow speed. Might be some nasty germs still, though.”


He put the bottle back, checked for spiders, and sat against a nearby tree, sighing softly. Eyes closed, he began to think and plan.


So, food. Fish? Ferns? Tree bark? Trapping animals?


Maybe, maybe, maybe, and probably not. Josh knew the vague basics of spearfishing, and a wooden hook might be doable. The various ferns in the woods were maybe probably hopefully not poisoned, but not something he wanted to gamble on. Tree bark was supposed to be edible, but he’d also heard some kinds were poisonous and couldn’t remember which were which. Oak, aspen, and birch were maybe, maybe, edible? He didn’t want to gamble.


Trapping rabbits or something would probably be the easiest. That is, if he had any actual bait, and knew how to make traps beyond reading Rangers’ Apprentice and some story about a kid stranded at his dad’s log cabin fourteen years ago, when Josh had been in middle school.


Confident that he wouldn’t solve any of these potential food sources without some experimentation, Josh moved down the list. Water, next. Purification tablets, of course. He also had the little camp burner, as well as his mug. Boiling water in that was definitely doable, but it wasn’t very large, and he was sure that actually evaporating it and collecting for true purity would be incredibly difficult, if not impossible, without better supplies.


Assuming he could even start a fire, which was something Josh was at least reasonably capable at. He had matches, a lighter, and a flint and steel. Not to mention, Josh still remembered how to make a bow drill, assuming he could use a shoe lace for the threading.


Shelter. His hammock was in good condition, so he was definitely sorted there. Even if it thunderstormed, he should be fine as long as he’s careful with where he hangs it, and seals the ends well.


A distant noise brought Josh’s thoughts to a screeching halt. Fish. Salmon Run. Bears. Was that another bear?


He opened his eyes, scanning warily. He didn’t see any movement beyond the river, and there seemed to be no bears present there. He nonetheless resolved to hang his hammock a good distance away from the river. Fire would require the open space, but he could at least sleep far enough away to potentially avoid getting eaten.


Assuming bears were a problem, which was admittedly an assumption. A reasonable one in Josh’s opinion, based off of the whole “the universe is out to screw with me” part where he woke up in the wrong forest.


He still wasn’t sure he believed that one. He was probably in a coma but, until getting some form of concrete proof, Josh planned to behave like his life was on the line and the universe was out to get him.


Planning disrupted for now, Josh figured that gathering firewood might be a decent first step. The edge of the birch and the thicker forest seemed to be perfect for it, due to wind being channeled up the open river. He picked a divot in the treeline, where the birch went unusually far back, to make his camp. There was less brush and it was hopefully more sheltered from the wind than out in the birch would be.


Josh wasn’t sure what the nightlife was like around the area, but he wanted to keep a fire going all night just to be safe. He spent a good hour gathering wood of various sizes, and used some of the smaller branches to make an impromptu lean-to for storing it. Birch bark and moss was also gathered, hopefully suitable for starting fires.


He set up his hammock a good ten paces or so from the area he’d cleared out for the fire, hidden within the treeline. A couple large flat rocks, gathered from the riverbed, made for an improvised table.


Future plans involved dragging some of the bushier underbrush into a circle around his “camp,” both as a shield from wild animals, and from wind.


It was now late afternoon, shadows not quite yet beginning to lengthen. Starting the fire was a relatively easy task, birch bark and dead moss catch easily when using a lighter. He gradually fed larger and larger sticks into the fire, until eventually he had a decently sized flame burning merrily away. 


The walls of his fireplace were seven foot long larger branches nearing what might be considered the size of a log. He could have cut them shorter with his emergency saw, but doing so would have worn it out faster. Josh’s plan was to push the logs in as they burned, ensuring a constant source of fuel with hopefully little work.


Fire successfully started, he reviewed his mental list. Renewable firestarter, food, shelter. He decided food was the most important currently, and approached the river again. Indeed, as before, fish were flashing in the sunlight occasionally as they traveled upstream.


Reassured, Josh began to walk along the treeline. Eventually he encountered a younger oak tree, about two inches in diameter at the base. He cut the top six feet off with his emergency saw. Josh started to do the same with the branches, but paused.


He jogged back through the birches, towards the edge of the river. After some searching and rock bashing, he eventually located a suitable piece. By banging a rock, he wasn’t sure what type it was, against another rock, Josh managed to make a fairly sharp edged, do-it-yourself blade.


“It’s not flint, but it will do the trick and preserve my tools a bit longer.” Josh shrugged to himself as he jogged back to where he’d left the fallen sapling.


Where possible, he used the rock to remove the smaller limbs, saving his saw only for particularly stubborn branches. When done, he dragged both the slender trunk and rock back to his campsite.


He fed some more wood to the fire, and then wandered off to the woods in search of a spruce tree. There weren’t many, when compared to the number of oak trees and other pines, but he eventually located one. Currently, Josh was running off of half remembered book plot survivalism that may or may not have been real.


He dug around at the base of the spruce tree, using the same rock as before for a shovel. He managed to find and cut off some decently long smaller roots, which would hopefully work as impromptu rope or string.


Josh brushed the dirt off, and trimmed all the offshoot branches, was that the term? from the roots. He then hurried back to his camp.


Next came the whittling. Using his actual knife, Josh began to carve away at the base of the sapling he’d acquired. He braced the branch against a crook in a tree’s roots. Placing the knife against the wider base end of the branch, Josh began to tap the back of the knife with another piece of wood. This split the branch at that end.


At the base of the split, Josh did a lashing with one of the smaller roots he’d acquired. Hopefully it would stop the branch from splitting further, and he could save on his supply of actual rope. That done, Josh began carving away at the split end, reducing it to two prongs. After maybe thirty minutes, it was ready. 


He ran his knife along the full length, smoothing out some knobs and making the fish spear nicer to hold. Josh debated baking the prong end in the fire but ultimately decided against it, reasoning that green wood would be strong enough on its own. 


The finished product. A smooth spear with a splayed two pronged ending, hopefully capable of spearing and holding on to fish. And now, to test it. Josh walked to the edge of the river, stripped off his pants and shoes, and stepped into the river.


It was cold. The current that threatened to sweep him off his feet if he misstepped was also cold enough to quickly chill his legs to the bone. Josh knew he’d need to go warm up regularly, if he wasn’t able to catch a fish right away. Facing downstream a small distance into the river, Josh waited.


For a minute or two, nothing. The fish were going around, avoiding the new thing in the river. Josh waited. Eventually, after several minutes, a flash of silver! He thrust forward with the spear, missing by a mile.


Hmm. Knowing to aim ahead of where the fish was a lot easier than actually doing it. This was hard! He settled down again, gradually losing feeling in his feet as he waited for another fish to swim by.


A flash. Stab! Miss. He was closer this time, Josh thought, but close didn’t bring dinner. Again!


…


Josh had to go back to the fire to warm up multiple times. He fell, spluttering, into the water twice. But he was getting better!


It took him at least forty tries. Partway through, he decided to try facing sideways and throwing that way. He had several glancing blows throughout the process, but nothing that actually caught. Eventually though, a strike flew true.


A fairly small fish flashed by. Josh stabbed downwards, aiming below the image of the fish to account for refraction. (That one had taken him a little bit to figure out.)
The prongs took it in the side and continued downwards, pushing the frantic creature against the riverbed. It thrashed desperately, Josh having to fight to keep the spear angled against the bottom. It felt like an eternity, though in reality it was probably only a minute or two at most.


Eventually, the fish stopped moving. In the process of removing his spear and his catch from the rocky riverbed, Josh found that one of the prongs had broken. He simply shrugged, hoisted the spear and attached fish, and sloshed his way back out of the river.


Back on shore, Josh took a moment to examine his catch. Not being at all a fishologist, all he knew was that it looked “fairly large” and was colored “like my dinner.” This particular fish was about half the length from the tips of his fingers to his elbow, hopefully enough for a meal.


Now for the part that Josh really knew nothing about. The dying light meant he needed to move quickly though, so he didn’t procrastinate. Another plate sized flat rock was removed from the riverbed, scoured with sand, rinsed off, and rested on top of the fire’s coals.


Josh was originally considering doing some kind of fish kebab, but not knowing how to properly gut one made him decide to err on the side of caution. Hopefully a filet, (that was the word, right?) would be safer, even if meat was wasted.


He found a large boulder by the riverside, shrugging. This was as good a place as any, he supposed. After running back to grab his large survival knife, Josh placed his catch down on the boulder. Hmm.


The knife was inserted point first near the base of the tail. Josh cut up the belly, towards the front fins. The stench of fish guts immediately filled the air. Holding his breath and trying not to gag, Josh reached into the cut to remove the organs. It took some searching and several minor whimpers, but he eventually removed what he thought was the guts, and tossed them into the river. He then frantically rinsed both his dinner and his hands off in the river, for all the good it’d do.


Starting again at the tail, Josh worked his knife under the scales, sliding it up towards the head along the spine. This took some doing, but seemed to work as he intended. When the knife reached the base of the head, he then cut the slab of meat off. Josh again washed it off in the river, before setting it aside scales facing down.


Part two, now. Josh flipped the fish over. This time he started with severing the meat from the head on this side of the spine. There had been an awful lot of meat left on the first piece, so he wanted to try something else.


He ran the knife down along the stomach towards the tail this time, trying to stay as close to the spine as possible. He then ran the knife down the back of the fish as well. The spine, he reasoned, jutted out a bit from the other bones. Rib bones? So by cutting each side first and then running down the middle, he should get more meat.


It did indeed seem to work, if he was any judge of weight. Josh sliced the flesh off without much difficulty. He rinsed it off in the river, setting it aside. The remainder of the fish was tossed into the river. It seemed to be the best way to dispose of it, considering his current situation.


The stone was rinsed off with cupfuls of water from the river, and he spent the last of the ailing daylight vigorously rinsing off his hands, front, and knife. Josh was never the biggest fan of getting his hands dirty, meaning he never volunteered to gut fish at scouting events. Unfortunate, as that knowledge would have been rather useful now.


Some ten minutes later, Josh took the filets back to the fire. He placed them down on the angled rock scale side down, where they immediately began to sizzle. Some salt and pepper, his only available seasonings, were tossed on.


By the time the fish had finished cooking, the sun had well and truly fallen. Josh spent the time poking at the fire, watching the filets sizzle, and considering his current predicament. At length, his dinner was finished. Using the handle attached to his mess kit bowl, the only spatula-like implement Josh had, he managed to lever the slabs of fish into the other bowl part of his mess kit.


The moment of truth. After the filets had cooled somewhat, Josh cautiously poked at one with his heavy duty plastic fork. It… looked done? No fancy oil, or a lid, or any of the bajillion things he’d have in a normal kitchen, but at least it looked edible.


The flesh parted easily enough, separating easily from the skin. He speared a bit with his fork, and ate it. He made a face.


“Yep, that’s fish alright.”


 Josh wasn’t really a fan of fish in the first place, and the lack of proper seasoning wasn’t helping it make its case. The meal was finished regardless, Josh eating quickly so he didn’t have to reflect on the flavor, or lack thereof, too much.


Things were cleaned in the river, the remnants of the meal tossed, and the stone was lifted off the fire via a stout branch and some careful maneuvering. More wood was tossed on, Josh went through his evening ablutions, and moved to go get in his hammock.


It was quite dark now, crickets chirping and fireflies out in full force. He stumbled mid step, looking up at the sky. Were there two moons up there? He rubbed his tired eyes.


Yep, two moons. They were both faint, either in their waning or waxing stages, but there were undeniably two moons hanging above in the night sky. 


“Huh.”


Josh looked around. Seeing no one to share this revelation with, he simply shrugged and resumed walking. Crawling into his hammock took some doing, like always. He shivered one last time before wrapping up in his sleeping bag and a travel blanket, grateful to escape the chilly night air.


The hapless traveler sighed, running a hand through his hair. He’d always liked to style himself somewhat competent at camping, but this was utterly beyond him. His fishing plan had been entirely guesswork based off of half remembered info and intuition, and the spear fishing could have easily taken twice as long, or not worked at all.


What about tomorrow? The day after? Berries haven’t flowered yet, and Josh didn’t know of many late spring food sources. Was he supposed to eat fish every day? What about when the spawning season ended?


Any long term plan he tried to conceive relied on far too many gambles and unknown variables. Josh hugged himself, feeling an onset of sniffles.


He missed his dad. He missed his friends. He was supposed to be off having the time of his life on a camping trip that they’d planned for over a year. Instead, here he was located in whoknowwheresville, population one.


Tears began forming as he hugged himself under the blanket.


Desperate, Josh took his phone out for what he expected to be one last look before powering it off forever. Surely there was something, anything? His sniffles slowed before really starting, his mind frantically focusing on the dangled hope.


As Josh reached the bottom of the app list, his eyes widened.


…oh.


Oh.


Huh.


There, near the bottom of the list, something he’d previously overlooked due to the name being truncated in the menu. “Survival Manual.” Installed… three years ago? When?


A vague memory of his uncle mentioning the app to him over Christmas break surfaced.


He scrolled through the app briefly. That was a lot of info. The food section had some good suggestions that he may have never thought of on his own, such as birds and bird nests. Advice for traps! That was an area he was completely unversed in.


He rubbed at his eyes, clearing the last of the tears away.


Hmm. Josh felt almost like this was cheating. At least until the battery eventually ran out, he supposed. 39%, maybe three quarters of a day if he was generous. He turned the phone off for now, sleep being more important. Considerably easier to achieve now, too. Even though the guide was on a time limit as he was himself, Josh felt a lot more confident about his chances of survival now. Somewhat at peace with his situation, he eventually drifted off to an uneasy sleep.




[Survivor Level 5!]
[Skill – Ingredients Sense (Minor) obtained!]


[Fisher Class obtained!]
[Fisher level 3!]
[Skill – Unerring Throw obtained!]




Josh’s body went rigid, as he tried to sit up in a hammock for the second day in a row.
Silence.
“…what was that?”




















Chapter 2:


Thunk. A moment of silence. Thunk. Again, and again, and again.


“Huh.”


Josh hurled another rock at one of the rocky outcroppings in the river. Again, it hit exactly where he’d aimed. Another rock, this time at a branch halfway up a nearby tree.


“[Unerring Throw], eh?”


Josh rubbed at his stubbled chin, plopping down on a nearby boulder. The sun should be rising over the trees any moment now.


“Let’s see. So all my throws go exactly where I’m aiming, but if I don’t account for the target moving while the projectile travels, it’ll miss.”


He rummaged around in his pockets, finding a forgotten napkin. Josh aimed at a nearby rock, chucking the napkin with all the considerable might that his muscle lacking frame could bring to bear. It did fly in the correct direction, but slowed down far too quickly to actually hit the rock.


“Air resistance isn’t taken into account. Does the Skill model an idealized projectile against gravity alone?”


Josh let out a somewhat unhinged laugh. “What am I doing, living in a video game? Is that what this is now?”


“Not sure if that’s better or worse than being in a coma in some random hospital. How’d I even get hit by a bus all the way up in the Rockies? Thought that was a prerequisite for being isekaid.”


“What were the first words I heard? [Survivor]? Seems about right for my situation. I guess that spinning decision I made wasn’t so random after all. [Dowsing Sense]. I’m willing to bet this river was the water closest to where I woke.”


Josh fell into thoughtful silence as the sky gradually brightened above him. A few lonely clouds scudded across a red and orange sky, the most magnificent sunrise he’d ever seen. Even with the sun obscured by trees, half of the sky was vibrantly colored, a sight to lift anyone’s spirits.


He smiled. “I suppose it’s not so bad here. As long as I don’t get eaten.”


Soon after, birds, hidden in their secret nesting places, began to sing a morning song. As the sun finally poked over the trees, Josh got up with a sigh.


“Let’s see. Breakfast, gathering firewood. Some kind of improvised barrier around the camp? Make a bow drill. Experiment with clay baking, if there’s any nearby?”


The morning went quickly. Breakfast was once again a quick bowl of oatmeal. He started the fire again, coaxing life back from the brink using still glowing embers from the previous night. Josh filled his now empty water bottle from the river, placing it near the fire.


He used his flat table rocks as an improvised mirror behind the bottle, hopefully reflecting enough heat back that it would boil without needing to be directly in the fire. Josh spent the rest of the morning gathering firewood, taking a break only to deal with the now boiling water.


Using his sweater as impromptu hot pads, (ow! That water bottle’s hot!), Josh removed the bottle from near the fire. After it’d cooled somewhat, he tossed in one of his water purification tablets. He then went back to collecting firewood.


Just like that, four hours had passed. Josh sat heavily on his foldable travel stool while wiping his brow with an arm. He sighed, regarding the small mountain of firewood he’d assembled safely out of range of any stray sparks.


“Hopefully that should last me a day or two. What now?”


He decided to just sit for a small while, watching the flames crackling merrily away in his fire ring.


“Charcoal could be useful, if I can remember how to make it. I wonder if a hole with a flat rock over the top would work as a container?”


Josh’s mind wandered for a time, until eventually he stood with a massive sigh. “Oh well, back to work I suppose.”


He rummaged through the green branches that he’d stripped from the oak sapling yesterday. A forearm’s length was cut off, starting from the thicker end. He took this shorter branch and braced it between two tree trunks and some rocks. Over several hours, the bend that he was trying to add should hopefully become permanent.


Josh then examined the branch pile a second time, looking for the straightest continuous piece he could find. Once located, about six inches were cut off. He stripped the bark off, whittling one end down to a somewhat blunted point. The other end he rounded as best he could.


“Hmm.”


He rubbed at his stubble, considering the various options lying around. After some quick mental deliberation, he grabbed his foldable saw and wandered off into the woods. It took some searching but he managed to locate a large fallen branch, too big to break apart by hand or drag anywhere. He’d had to leave it yesterday, but now it served a perfect purpose for today's arts and crafts session.


He removed an arm’s length from the branch, and brought it back to the campsite. From that piece he cut off a thumb thick disk, carving a thimble sized bowl shape into it. Next, the rest of the branch was braced against that same tree as with the spear. Josh repeated the trick with the knife, splitting said branch down the middle.
He discarded one of the halves. As with the small disk, he carved out a depression on the second half, specifically on the rounded side’s halfway point.


Almost done. Josh removed a stick candle from his pack, holding it over the fire to soften it. He rubbed the wax over the smoother end of the wooden spike he’d carved earlier.


He tested the fit, placing the rounded end of the spike into the depression he’d carved in the small disk. The pointed end of the spike fit snugly into the hole he’d carved in the wood slab.


Some time had passed, but not enough for the earlier branch to have bent sufficiently. Josh tossed some more wood onto the fire, and then grabbed his shoveling stone.


He wandered a bit towards the river, where the ground was a bit sandier. He then spent nearly an hour excavating a hole, shoveling out sand and chopping up roots that got in the way.


A break was taken to finish off the last of his jerky. Most of their food had been stored in a bear safe group container, so all he’d had in his pack was some travel snacks and the oatmeal.


After that quick lunch break, Josh went back to digging for another two hours, judging by the motion of the sun. The hole was now roughly the size of a three gallon bucket. He used the dirt he’d excavated as walls around the edge of the hole, serving to make it somewhat taller.


Much of his gathered firewood was snapped up, until it was small enough to fit in the hole. He placed some down in the bottom, as a first layer. Coals and some smaller bits of burning wood were scraped out of the edge of the fire, carried in his travel mug, and dumped into the hole. He did this twice, before piling more wood on.


Josh tended to it, helping the fire to grow and begin burning everything in the hole. He pounded it down with a rock as wood began to catch, and then would add another layer to the fuel.


After doing this a couple times, everything was near burning or actively on fire. He tamped it down once more, and then covered the top of the hole with a large flat rock, leaving only a few holes poked in the earthen walls.


“Now I just gotta wait a day, if memory serves.”


He washed off his mug, dusted off his hands and knees.


It was now roughly halfway through the afternoon. He rubbed his chin. His stomach rumbled.


“Alright alright, no need to get angry with me. Fishing it is.”


More practiced than before, he recreated the fish spear of yesterday. This time however, he used four prongs instead of two. The spear was a bit shorter now, but hopefully still serviceable.


After only two tries, he managed to snag another fish. [Unerring Throw] worked as advertised. As long as he accounted for the light diffraction, his aim was straight and true. Four pronged seemed better than two, at least going off of how quickly the fish stopped wiggling.


“…I feel like that should have taken longer. Maybe the gods smile on me today, if this place has any.”


The fish filet process went much the same as yesterday as well. He smiled. “At least that’s one problem solved, until my knife breaks or something.”


He cooked the fish, again with salt and pepper as his only seasonings. He made a face. “Does thyme and rosemary just grow in the woods? Some wild herbs would be nice.”


Utensils, and he, were cleaned. Josh checked on the attempted charcoal oven. It did seem there was a  small amount of smoke leaking through the holes. Hopefully he did it right.


He’d gone through his whole water bottle across the course of the day. The rocks were reset for reflection as before, and he left his bottle to boil with fresh water in it once more.


Now for the bow drill’s final steps. The bow stick part had been weighted for nearly half a day, hopefully good for what it needed to do.


It did indeed look to be fairly bent. He carved a couple notches near the ends, to help the rope stick. He then tied the thin rope to both ends of said stick, making sure to leave a small amount of slack. 


“Now for testing.”


He took the spike, twisted the rope around it once such that the rope was taught.


The pointed part went in the notch in the base that he’d carved, and the disk rested on top.


He held the disk with one hand, and the bow with his other. He pressed down heavily on the disk, moving the bow back and forth slowly. This spun the spike as the rope moved, creating quite a bit of heat at the contact point with the base.


Josh adjusted his form, leaning his entire body weight on the disk. As the wooden slab heated up, he began to move the bow faster. After maybe forty seconds it began to smoke. He paused a moment to place a piece of bark underneath the wood, to catch whatever fell out of the notch.


More drilling. He’d stop shortly after smoke, give it a couple moments of air, and then spin some more. After a minute or two he had a small glowing coal sitting on the bark, among a pile of black wood dust.


Dry grass and shredded birch bark was added, him feeding the ember tenderly into a small flame.


Having proved the design worked, he let the small fire go out for now. The bow drill was checked for damage, and he found no cracks or splits in it. 


Josh leaned back against a tree with a sigh and a smile. He had a source of sustainable fire now.


It was already quite late, the sun beginning to set over the horizon. Fiddling with a leaf, Josh watched the sky change from blue to yellow to orange. The day had passed in a blur, constantly moving from one task to another. He was running to keep ahead of countless invisible timers, of which any hitting zero meant death.


Time to lack of food, time to lack of shelter, time to lack of fire. At least the fire problem was fairly solved, though the rope would fray quickly with constant use. His hammock should last quite some time, it’d been his faithful companion since middle school and had yet to begin fraying.


Josh sighed again. How long until his tools broke? How long before the water tablets ran out? If they did, would he be able to make a purifier in time? If not, would the river water make him sick?


He rubbed at his face. Thinking of the future was starting to crack the calm he felt from watching the sunset. Josh knew he couldn’t make more hours in a day; he’d just have to spend the time he did have wisely.


He removed the now boiling bottle of water from near the fire. Tossed another purification tablet in. It was too late and too dark to really leave camp, so he pulled out his phone and turned it on.


36% now. He scrolled through the various tabs. Animals, tips for finding game trails, tips for making numerous kinds of traps. All useful topics, certainly something to investigate later.


For now, Josh was more interested in plants. Huh. Acorns, while bitter, could apparently be boiled multiple times to remove the poor flavor. There were steps for a Universal Edibility testing process. It was fairly involved, taking something like 8 hours for each part of each plant he wanted to test. It also called for a whole new test for boiled, dried, raw, and any other eating method that cooks a plant differently.


“Well that’s no good. Hopefully I can rely on positive identification, like those raspberry bushes from earlier.”


Based on the text, there were a couple plants he was fairly sure he could recognize on sight and smell. Unfortunately the app was vague on details and actual pictures, instead focusing on surefire warning signs of dangerous plants. Almond smell was something he recognized as a sign that a plant had lots of cyanide in it.


He rubbed at his face again, turning his phone off and putting it away. “I can’t wait to accidentally give myself diarrhea.”


The sun had well and truly set by now, and the stars were beginning to come out. More wood was tossed on the fire. Tired after a long day of work, Josh crawled inside his hammock. Under the pale light of alien moons, and watched by alien stars, he eventually drifted off to sleep.




[Survivor Level 6!]
[Skill – Lesser Resistance: Disease obtained!]


[Crafter Class obtained!]
[Crafter Level 2!]
[Skill – Detect Flaw obtained!]




“Huah!”


He jerked again, still not used to the voice in his head. In a slurred and sleep ridden voice, he mumbled. “Disease resistance? Did I eat something nasty?”












Chapter 3:


He awoke to birds chirping, and soft light diffusing from above. Even though the sun was rising it was still rather dark in his campsite, as sunrise occurred on this side of the river. The ancient, towering oaks didn’t let too much light through. Fog drifted quietly across the river, and for now the world was peaceful.


As with yesterday, the first thing Josh did was fiddle around with his new skills. Or rather, one of them. He had no desire to try to make himself sick, just to see what would happen. Hmm. Presumably disease doesn’t extend to toxins. A shame, that’d make testing plants for edibility a lot less stressful.


[Detect Flaw] was like a sixth sense in his head, feeling akin to an eye he’d always had but just never used until now. All he had to use the ability was focus on an object. He could see in his mind the weak points in the bow drill, potential fractures that may worsen, fiber bindings damaged by his whittling.


It didn’t give him any insight into how to fix said flaws or avoid making them in the future, but that would come with experience. Being able to detect the largest potentially problematic failure points in any tool was undoubtedly going to be useful; he was already factoring the ability into his future plans.


After a bit more experimentation, he got up to make breakfast. Rather than use his emergency stove, Josh did the same water boiling routine as yesterday. He needed to prepare more water anyways, so all this meant was that breakfast would take a bit longer.


And he’d have more emergency consumables for later.


While the water was boiling, he checked on the charcoal hole. Hmm. Stone was still hot to the touch. Presumably that meant it wasn’t done? Josh had seen some videos about charcoal several years ago, but that was all he had to go on and he barely remembered anything. It certainly didn’t help that when he’d looked last night, Josh had found that the phone survival guide had nothing on how to make charcoal.


“Oh well. I guess I’ll just have to experiment a bunch until I get it right.”


Talking quietly to himself, Josh reasoned, kept him sane. Or maybe was the first sign that he was losing it? He shrugged.


Leaving the charcoal pit for now, he gathered firewood until the water was boiling. After removing the bottle from near the fire, he facepalmed.


“Right. Purification tablets take four hours to work.”


He sighed, rubbing his face with both hands. “[Lesser Resistance: Disease], I’m counting on you. This better apply to worms and parasites or so help me. I’ll- I’ll- uh, I’ll carve you out of my head!”


Josh fist pumped the air triumphantly, before looking around. “I don’t actually know if I can even do that. Can you refuse a level or skill? Can you remove them later?” He shrugged..


“Ah well, time to gamble.”


Without considering in detail what he was about to do, Josh added some of the near boiling water to his bowl. “Another oatmeal breakfast. Yay.”


He siphoned down the gruel at record speed, eager to move on to other tasks. “Now I just gotta hope I don’t get magic parasites, or something stupid like that.”


Josh washed up after the meal, filling up the bottle to boil once more for purification.


“Right. I’ve got shelter, I’ve got fire. Food and water, next. I guess I could go looking for bird nests?” He rubbed his chin. “And more saplings, if I see them. Oh! And any clay, if some is nearby. What does clay look like, exactly?”


He threaded the largest knife onto his belt, and slipped the folded saw into a pocket. In the vague hope that it might randomly start working once more, his compass was worn around his neck.


A larger piece of wood was rolled onto the edge of the fire. Ready to leave, he decided to just sit and wait for the water to finish boiling. Once it had, he tossed in the customary tablet after removing it from heat.


With a single backward glance, he left along the river, towards the distant mountains visible in the distance. He chanted softly as he walked, “Clay. Birds. Saplings. Clay. Birds. Saplings. Clay. Birds. Sapl-food?”


He halted after some five minutes of walking through fairly homogenous sandy birch, looking around wildly. “What-?”


While stopped, Josh glanced at a small patch of green shoots at the base of a pair of young oaks on the forest edge. Suddenly, some feeling of edibility invaded his consciousness. Josh had the odd experience of tasting with his eyes. It was like smelling bitter, or tasting purple.


All he knew was, those plants were edible. The oaks they were nestled beneath were on the edge of the sandier soil, where the birch gave way to proper forest.
He quickly closed the couple feet of separation, bending down to more closely examine the find. 


Josh bent a green chute to the side, looking at where the stem met the earth. “Hey! I think these are leeks!”


What luck! Leeks were one of the few plants Josh was confident he could positively identify in the wild. He scratched his head.


“…but what tipped me off to look more closely?”


Josh mentally reviewed the abilities he’d been given from whatever gave people abilities. He slapped his face with a dirty palm, muttering through his hand. “I completely forgot about ingredient sense, didn’t I?”


“Ah, well!” Josh hummed to himself as he pulled up about half of the plants. Hopefully leaving half would mean they grew back? He vaguely remembered reading about sustainable wild harvesting one.  After some fiddling and finagling, he decided to slip the leeks into one of the massive side pockets on his cargo shorts. Using his knife, ‘LE’ was carved into the bark of one of the larger nearby trees. “Might prove useful, knowing I’ve visited this particular patch already.”


After giving a last glance around for anything important he might have missed, Josh continued hiking further into the mountain foothills.


“Ok. So, it seems [Ingredients Sense (Minor)] kinda just lets me know when there’s edibles within one or two paces. Does it include eggs? Is it what I consider edible, or does it run on some more esoteric grading scale? If I got hungry enough to consider tree bark, would I start tasting all the trees around me?”


He shook his head. These and other things he considered as he walked, continuing to watch for eggs and such- now with edible plants added to the list.


Josh’s hand brushed against the leeks sticking out of his pocket as his journey continued. “I should make a shelter or cubby for the stuff in my backpack, so I can empty it out. Would definitely make carrying things I find easier.” The forest answered only with silence, and the quiet babbling of the river.


As Josh walked, the river began to change. The birch trees thinned out, and the  soil became less sandy and more squishy, along the riverside. A few more minutes, and Josh encountered a fairly striking landmark.


Ahead of him was a wide section of dried riverbed. It looked to be fairly silty, not too much in the way of larger rocks, and no boulders. One edge of this dried section looked like normal forest, but the other side had a small copse of trees on a raised bank.


The river had, at some point, rerouted around said clump of trees. It now gurgled and burbled fairly aggressively in a thin torrent of rushing water, leaving a copse of stranded pines between the dry riverbed and the new course.


As he edged around the dry portion, he saw that the river actually dug substantially into the ground on its new route, creating a kind of mini rapid. The dried section of bed, on closer inspection, looked to be made of clay! It had that cracked gray texture, and when he stepped delicately on it, squishing sounds could be heard under his feet.


Hmm. But how to carry it anywhere, though? “My hammock bag might work, though that might just as well ruin it. Maybe starting a second fire, over here?” He fiddled with the clay a bit, running it between his fingers and squishing it. The hand was rinsed off in the nearby water, and Josh resolved to consider the matter while he walked. 


He took note of several additional suitable saplings that he passed. Several bundles of herbs were gathered. Josh believed he’d found stunted basil, and maybe rosemary? He wasn’t terribly sure, but they were definitely edible, and there were only so many kinds of herbs to guess from.


A smile, as the wind blew suddenly, carrying smells of spring. Josh still wasn’t quite over the whole apparent teleportation thing, but at least the spring weather was quite pleasant. The breeze was certainly appreciated, wicking away heat from his exertions. Birds were chirping, squirrels were warning each other away from their territory. The sun shone through the canopy, casting dappled light onto the sandy ground. He paused for a moment to just smell the air and grin, before continuing on his way.


Still no bird nests after a decent chunk of time walking, which was unfortunate. No new herbs, either. Oh well, at least a source of clay had been located. Though whether he could actually do anything useful with such a resource remained to be seen.


A frighteningly human scream broke the silence. He froze in place, looking around wildly. The birds had ceased their singing. Was someone in danger? The good mood of earlier was gone now, replaced only by trepidation. Paralyzed by indecision, Josh hesitated enough that the choice was made for him.


Bushes rustled up ahead, and a snarling wolf taller than Josh himself leapt through. It landed poorly, slipping on an injured leg and tumbling to the ground. It struggled back upright, seemingly ignoring him in favor of taking weak steps away from whatever lay behind the bush.


Still stunned and in shock, the terrified boy noticed that the wolf was missing quite a chunk out of its shoulder. He hadn’t even begun to move or back up, when the horrible screaming grew closer. It wasn’t a person, it was… goats? Giant goats, again larger than Josh. There were three of them, and they had distressingly sharp teeth. Blood, presumably from the wolf, dripped down the chin of one. Two headed for the wolf, hunger in their eyes and no hesitation in their movement, while one circled around and headed for Josh. 


The [Survivor] finally snapped out of his shock, electing to run rather than try to climb a tree, or something like that. He fled frantically through the sparse underbrush, the thunder of approaching hooves underpinned by the increasingly distant cries of the besieged wolf.


Leaves and branches whipped past his face, threatening to trip him. The rumbling of hooves was still close, and getting closer. He considered hurling the herbs at the oncoming goat to distract it; unfortunately, it was quite clearly carnivorous, or at least preferred meat. A bump from behind sent him tumbling, as the goat grew close enough to trip him.


The goat went tumbling too, rolling over him but landing sideways on a tree trunk before bounding down and halting upright. It bleated at him, mostly drowned out by Josh’s panicked screams. He scrambled back to his feet, grabbing the nearest stick off the forest floor.


The monster cocked its head sideways at him, staring for a moment before beginning to approach. Josh charged wildly, trying to circle to the side while swinging his stick. It snapped upon impact, barely even rustling the goat’s fur. It bowled him over once more, sending him tumbling. In the process, an apple size chunk was taken out of his leg in a single bite.


It bleated again, that horrid scream. Mocking laughter, or so Josh imagined. He shook with pain, clutching at his leg as his lifeblood spilled onto the forest floor. Josh stared at the goat as it approached, not with hatred, but with the blank gaze of someone who cannot understand, comprehend, or accept the scenario they have found themselves in. This was where he died.


White fur flashed as the goat accelerated, closing the gap that yet remained in a blink, mouth open to take a second bite. Josh closed his eyes, ready for the end. However, over the thundering of the blood in his ears came a different form of thunder. There was a final strangled scream from the goat, and then silence. Something whuffled at him, warm breath washing over him.


Josh opened his eyes. A ludicrously large bear was looming over him, with- was that moss, growing on its back? He wasn’t entirely sure, blinking away tears of pain, but it seemed to be so. It whuffled at him again, sniffing curiously. The injured boy just stared dumbly at the wall of fur staring him down, still in a state of shock. Where’d the goat gone?


There was another final cry of pain from the wolf in the distance, causing the bear to look up. It licked its lips, spat away some tufts of white fur, and stepped over Josh, lumbering off in the direction of the other goats. Josh just stared dumbly; It was pushing over a number of the younger birches, due to the forest near the river simply being too young and close for such a massive creature to pass.


He heard distant sounds of violence, and then nothing. The bear didn’t come back. Josh sat there in shock for a dangerously long time, continuing to bleed from his leg. Eventually he stirred, releasing his hands from the death grip they had around his knee. This- This was.


“Death.” He murmured to himself, shakily. Already pale from blood loss, Josh nonetheless began the act of placing a tourniquet around his leg. Losing the leg from a tourniquet would be death, but so too would be bleeding out.


“No good options.” How’d he even clot such a wound? Not even blood in his body, for it to happen normally. Stuff something inside? How would he walk? Josh shook these thoughts aside, grabbing a suitable stick nearby to use as leverage for tightening the shirt just below his knee.


Spots flashed in his eyes and he cried out in pain, every time he accidentally moved his lower leg. The knot was started, and he forced himself through the agony of twisting the stick before looping the knot back around and finalizing the tourniquet. He was on a time limit, now, to get back to camp and figure out some way to stem the bleeding before he lost the leg anyways. If it was even tight enough to stop him bleeding out, though.


Josh tried to stand, but his vision flashing and his head going gray was enough to knock him back down. The blood was still oozing, though slower now. Death was knocking, but he wasn’t ready to answer. Josh crawled to the nearest tree, lifting his leg up and resting it on the fallen trunk in between flashes of agony.


He lay back, trying to keep the injury as high above the rest of him as possible. Blood seeped down his pant leg, and he was flickering in and out of consciousness now. “Well, I tried.”


Josh closed his eyes, opened the door to let Death in.




[Survivor Level 7!]
[Skill – Lesser Clotting obtained!]




It was some time before Josh came to. It was probably past noon, now, and though his mind was dull some part of him was surprised to still be alive. Josh lifted his head, weekly, and saw that his leg had stopped dripping.


“Skills. Imagine that. I wonder-” he blanked out for a moment. “I wonder what they’re like, at higher levels.” He would have shrugged, were his limbs not the human equivalent of wet noodles at the time.


“Need to get back to camp.” It occurred to Josh, as he struggled to get up, that the bear may very well have left some amount of goat or wolf carcass; if only he had a working pair of legs, to carry anything anywhere with.


Head still pounding and vision still flashing, Josh slowly, carefully, levered himself into a standing position by leaning against a tree. A fallen branch was appropriated as a walking stick. “Definitely going to need to make something better, I think. I’m basically crippled for several weeks, if I can even survive at all.”


What had been a fifteen minute walk now took Josh several hours to traverse. Multiple times he’d had to stop to catch his breath, and the risk of banging his leg especially hard and simply dropping to the floor was ever present. The injured boy left the tourniquet on, assuming that [Lesser Clotting] was just that, lesser, and that every little bit would help keep his blood inside.


Josh nearly cried with relief, when he came into sight of the camp. He rushed to his medical kit as best he was able. Wipe the wound with alcohol pads, biting a cloth against the pain. Apply disinfectant, padding, wrap with gauze? Josh paused, frowned. Lacerations were one thing, bones quite another.


“How the hell am I supposed to bandage this?” The issue lay with healing. With such a large injury the risk of infection was huge, but to simply wrap it? It wasn’t just a cut, a portion of his leg was gone. Josh shrugged, using up most of his medical padding and gauze to hopefully pad the injury and shield it in a way that wouldn’t prevent healing.


He added more wood to the fire with some difficulty. Despite the painkillers, every motion made him wince in pain as his leg was jostled. Josh fought through it, stirring the embers back into a proper fire again. Moving the baking stone back was just as hard, he mostly resorted to bracing one hand against the ground and slowly shifting it with the other.


It was now nearing dinner. The thought of having to stand nearly made Josh cry again, but going to bed hungry wasn’t an option. An injury like this, and the blood loss? Josh would die of malnutrition far too quickly. Wound bandaged, he fought his way back to his feet. Spear in one hand and walking stick in the other, Josh struggled over to the river. He stripped all the bloodied clothing, washing it off as best he could before setting it on a rock. The unfortunate soul was gratified to see that, at least, removing the tourniquet had not started the bleeding again.


He entered the water, moving slowly and leaning on his spear. Falling, right now, would be rather unfortunate and painful. Limbs shaking, it took him far too many attempts to snag a fish. There were several he almost caught, but they managed to slip away due to the many ways he was currently disadvantaged.


Finally he succeeded, struggling back to the river’s edge, trying to avoid the flapping fish tail as he used his spear as a walking aid once more. Dinner was a slow affair, the sun setting far faster than Josh had hoped for. The fish was considerably more palatable with wild leek and the few herbs he’d found; though it was still fish, it nonetheless tasted delicious in Josh’s current half starved state.


Rather than try and process the events of the day, Josh simply cleaned up the remnants of the meal, checked his injury for bleeding, tossed more fuel on the fire, and rolled up into his hammock. Sleep found him quickly, that night.




[Fisher Level 5!]
[Skill – Lesser Dexterity obtained!]




Josh just sobbed, quietly.












































Chapter 4:


On this, the fourth day since Josh awoke in a strange forest, his morning began with the sound of raindrops on canvas, and the rustling of wet leaves. He woke later than usual, still tired, stiff, and in a great deal of pain. The air was damp, the animals quiet. 


Josh eyed a droplet of water as it rolled down the centerline of the canvas above him. It paused, hung there quivering, and then dropped onto his eye. He cursed, blinking furiously, and watched as another droplet began progressing down.


“Well, I guess I know what woke me now.” Josh sighed, and rubbed at his face. He didn’t really want to rehang his canvas, especially now with the injury, but a damp sleeping bag could very quickly become more than just an annoyance. Something to add to the list after the rain stops, he supposed.


The [Survivor] shifted slightly, grimacing as flashes of pain ran up his leg. Getting out of the hammock was going to be absolute hell, one he was not looking forward to. In an attempt to distract himself from the future, and delay that future’s coming, Josh decided to make a game of trying to identify sounds. 


Bird, squirrel, then silence aside from the rustling of leaves and the dull roar of soft rainfall. What sounded like a falling branch off in the distance broke the quiet, after some time. After laying in bed for probably another half hour or so, Josh resolved to begin his day, regardless of the rain.
Readying himself for the pain, Josh began the process of exiting a hammock with one good leg. The bug netting was rotated around the center line. He widened the opening in the netting, holding it in place with his right leg and arm. Wait. Hmm.


Josh pulled his arm and leg back inside. While shielding the back of his left leg with his right to protect it from collisions, Josh lifted himself up with his hands and upper body strength, and rotated sideways. Then he shifted his entire body towards the edge of the hammock, walking on his hands. Once the edge of the hammock was supporting his thigh, Josh was able to reach forward and open the bug netting without bending his leg overmuch.


Wincing in pain, he managed to get both legs on the ground without much trouble. It was another small feat of dexterity to extract the rest of him without falling, but at least he was out. Josh would have relaxed and sighed, were not the height of the rain tarp forcing him to bend over, pulling on all his leg muscles in an involuntary stretch. He hissed in pain, face bared in a grimace.


Josh hobbled up to his pack, keeping the leg movements as small as possible, and then sat down on the travel stool after unfolding it. His left leg straightened with some relief, the pain dulling to at least mostly tolerable levels.


Breakfast and medicine time. The last of his water was set to boil, oatmeal again. Only three packets left, and still no idea what his solution to the problem of breakfast was going to be.


He delicately undid the gauze around his leg, finding it to be mostly blood free. The clotting had even been such that loosening the gauze didn’t restart the bleeding, something Josh was intensely grateful for.


There wasn’t enough gauze for him in the packs of six hikers, if he’d needed to change the bandaging multiple times a day on a wound that size.


He reapplied the painkiller and antibacterial creams, before rewrapping the gauze. This, of course, was incredibly painful, though less so after the painkillers began to take effect. The water he’d started previously was soon boiling, and Josh ate quickly. The [Survivor] eyed his backpack warily. Oatmeal stores were getting concerningly low, and he didn’t really have a replacement besides more fish, at least currently. Unable to address the issue now he just shrugged. An ibuprofen popped into his mouth, Josh leaned back as best you can on a camp stool while waiting for it to take effect and the rain to stop. 


Soon enough, the rain turned to a drizzle, and then to a misting fog that coated everything. Josh stood with a sigh, and then a grimace of pain. While the painkillers were working, turning ‘unbearable agony’ into ‘bearable agony’ only helped so much.


He had a couple options for what to do next, but Josh figured that a proper crutch was probably the most important one. He grabbed yesterday’s stick from its leaning place against a tree, and gave it an experimental flex. [Detect Flaw] lit up like a Christmas tree. He shook his head. "Dead wood. No good."


A good sapling could be found easily enough, he’d walked past several yesterday. Only two problems with this plan. One, Josh rather didn’t want to travel towards the mountain again, considering the disastrous events of yesterday had happened in that direction. Two, he wasn’t really sure how to make a decent holster for his shoulder.


“Hmm, did they like, place something in the tree while it was still growing so that there was a split that a shoulder could fit in?”


Josh shrugged. If so, it was a solution that wouldn’t be very helpful, considering he needed a crutch today, rather than five years from now. Hmm. Maybe make something just like the spear, but with a rock placed in the split to rest his armpit on? It seemed worth trying, so he carefully braced against his placeholder stick and laboriously began heading in the direction of the sapling he remembered.


Walking on a flat stone floor would have been bad enough, but Josh was well aware that tripping on a tree root would be both very easy and incredibly painful. Travel was slow, and what should have been a ten minute walk was closer to thirty. He made it in the end, though, and the sawing and branch stripping process was relatively quick. There was a spark of inspiration, during the process.


“If I leave one of the top branch stubs, I can weave a shoulder holster with rope!” Following his own advice, a couple of the branches near the top of the sapling weren’t entirely removed.


“Another oak, so hopefully it should last some time.” There was the ever present worry, that talking to himself was the first sign of oncoming insanity. “Not much to be done about that, I suppose,” he said with a shrug.


Josh had kept an eye out for any small trees that forked evenly at the top and seen none, so this would have to do. The walk back was somewhat faster, though each step still sent bolts of pain shooting up his leg. By the time Josh made it back to camp tears were streaming from his eyes, and he needed to sit down for some time and let the pain subside.


He checked his leg and saw the bandages hadn’t bled through, which was presumably a good sign? “The first aid merit badge never really covered what to do when a significant portion of your leg muscle gets eaten-” and that was a thought that’s getting cut off at the root, because god the goats don’t think about the goats please leave me alone.


Josh gave a shuddering gasp and wiped at the tears leaking from his eyes. The pain had subsided by then, so it was time to get to work. First he tossed some more, now wet, wood onto the fire. “Going to need to improve my wood storage solution, I think.”


Another issue to add to the growing pile of chores. Moving on for now, Josh set his water bottle to boil again. The [Survivor] figured that it’d be better to use the purification tablets now, and hopefully find a permanent filter solution later. Ideally with a larger container. That done for now, he began on the crutch.


Rather than split the top of the sapling, he instead grabbed a concerningly significant portion of his remaining rope and began trying to work out how to make some kind of basket or pouch weave out of the stuff. Ah, but first! Realizing his operation was out of order, Josh first cut a groove into the top of the sapling and the tip of the branch stub that would serve as the structure of his shoulder support, then lightly crisped the thing in the fire and rubbed the charred bits with a stone to smooth it out. The hope was that searing the grooves slightly would help prevent the wood from splitting, though only time would tell if this actually worked.


And so, back to the weaving. He experimented with a couple different ways of anchoring the rope to the grooves, eventually settling on having three different strands of rope run across the top of the crutch, with the middle string being tighter, and thus higher, than the outer two.


It took several attempts and several hours, but eventually Josh arrived at a weave between the three guide strings that resulted in the interweave being part of the knot that kept the ends secured. Unlike his first attempts, this one seemed to be much more stable, with basically no knot slippage that he could see. [Detect Flaw] was mostly silent, the branch lighting up a little bit at the anchor grooves, but seemingly happy with the quality of the rope. He painstakingly got to his feet and anchored the crutch in his shoulder. “Hmm, a little tall.”


After the work of a few minutes more, enough of the base of the crutch had been sawn off that he was happy with the height. The weave seemed to be holding and even decently fit his armpit, so Josh was willing to chalk this one up as a success! “Though a real success would have been not getting eaten in the first place.”


Shaking his head and the unhappy thoughts away, Josh moved on to other matters. It was perhaps slightly later than midday, and though the sun was still mostly hidden by clouds, it had begun to dry up somewhat.